as the war on Gaza continues South
Africans have held dozens of protests
prayer meetings and pickets some in
support of Israel others like this one
in Cape Town calling for a ceasefire and
end to the
genocide however the protest quickly
descended into chaos as police fired
water cannon and stun grenades some
blame tensions between opposing groups
While others hold the police responsible
they could have uh de-escalated
the situation uh much more
professionally even if there was
agitation on both sides and we say and
there was and which there was and we say
even the even the law enforcement uh
only added to escalate the
situation while South Africa's
government supports a two-state solution
president Sosa has warned of Israel
committing
genocide South Africa has in recent days
recalled all its diplomats from Israel
which many within or supporting the
Jewish Community say concerning there
have been incidents that you find of
boycots of Jewish businesses and these
sorts of things and I think that that
makes the community feel very
uncomfortable we can't have a government
that is choosen sight we did H we did
this thing called nonaligned with Russia
but why is it that on Israel we become
ideological and we become radical on
this issue Christians in this country
stand and support
Israel as the war continues so do the
demonstr ation this one led by school
children we have a modal responsibility
to actually show them that we need to
fight for something especially in a
country that has a we want to spread
awareness as much as we can um with the
genocide that is taking place um
thousands of people have lost their
lives opposition party the economic
freedom fighters wants the government to
cut diplomatic and economic ties with
Israel it's put forward a motion for
that to be debated in Parliament
a debate that while the governing
African National Congress May support is
likely to see divisions within
Parliament too fam Miller Al
jazer make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer